Well, I think even more than Tesla, I
look at SpaceX and say this is an
amazing accomplishment to be able to do
something that every expert prior to you
coming on the place and you could not
do.
I think it's a it's a great company, an
engineering marvel, but you can have a
great company and an engineering marvel
that's too rich for your taste.
>> Hey Miriam.
>> Hi Telis.
>> Well, today's show is a big conversation
about SpaceX, the giant Elon Musk backed
IPO that is likely to come this upcoming
week. It is a huge event for markets and
we're going to have a really interesting
conversation with a guy who some people
call the dean of valuation. That's NYU
Stern finance professor Aswath
Damodaran. We're going to talk to him
about what he thinks SpaceX is worth
based on kind of a fundamental analysis
of its business. But of course, SpaceX
thinks something different about what it
is worth and the market will think
something about what SpaceX is worth and
that's kind of where we're going to meet
when the IPO price comes out, isn't it?
>> Yeah, SpaceX
surprised everyone and released
a price, a single price that it plans to
use in its upcoming offering. That could
still change.
>> Single price, that's not typical. Most
IPOs usually put out a range before they
do the deal because
listeners, SpaceX is expected to
complete actually do its IPO
this coming week. So right now we're
still in the talking about the
negotiating the price phase.
>> Right.
>> And usually a company puts out a range
>> and then it goes out and talks to
investors and kind of feels it out and
kind of decides, okay, this
>> is the price we want to use. They could
price in that range, a little bit above,
a little bit below, but SpaceX you're
saying just was like, here's the price.
>> Yep, and it's $135 a share, which would
be a valuation of 1.77 trillion as of
this recording.
>> And to to be clear, that's not like the
official final IPO price yet. That is
what they have proposed
And
>> It it change.
>> I would say that they could still change
it before the actual debut of the
company. They could refile the
prospectus or
keep negotiating it. But but they've
chosen this strategy of saying, rather
than setting a range, here's the price.
>> And that's supposedly going to simplify
negotiations with investors. We'll see
how that goes.
>> Well, like everything with this IPO,
it's a bit unprecedented because this
IPO is unprecedented. It's of a record
size, of this enormous valuation, like
you said, almost $1.8 trillion. So,
you know, how they did it in the past,
how other IPOs have done it, maybe it's
just not a good playbook for how SpaceX
should do it.
>> Yeah, I mean, Elon Musk, the CEO of
SpaceX, is known to be quite an
unconventional in his habits.
>> And not a guy willing not a guy
unwilling to take a chance, right?
>> Another unconventional thing he's doing
is
offering a lot of shares to retail
investors, investors like you and me.
Although you and I are not allowed to
buy shares of individual stocks, but our
listeners might be among the people who
are, you know, going out and buying
shares or submitting conditional
indications of interest to buy shares
cuz that's actually what you have to do
in this run-up period to the IPO.
>> say what you're willing to pay.
>> you're willing to buy,
um
but it's a non-binding agreement because
we don't know if this $135
a share is the actual final price. So,
you can't commit until you know. Um so,
you go in and you say, "I'm interested
in X number of shares." You could do it
um at Fidelity, Schwab, Robinhood, SoFi,
E*TRADE. Um all of these brokerages are
offering the opportunity for prospective
shareholders to go in and enter a
conditional indication of interest. And
then, when the offering officially
prices, which is typically the night
before the IPO, we don't know if that's
going to happen this time because
everything's kind of happening in a
little bit of a non-traditional way.
Um
you will then have to go and confirm
your interest when we know the real
final price. And then you could wake up
a shareholder.
>> But how much are you really going to
get? I know that historically many
companies have offered some sliver of
their deals to true retail investors,
individual investors, people with online
brokerage account type retail investors.
But they usually just get a tiny piece
of the deal and there's so much
interest, so many people say, "Sure,
I'll buy that at this amount." That you
maybe end up getting like literally like
a handful of shares.
>> And you might get none. You really might
get none. Yeah.
>> But in SpaceX, because the deal is so
big
>> Right.
>> and because they're putting a rather
large percentage of the deal towards
retail, right?
>> We don't know the percentage. I mean, it
will have to first filter through the
institutional investor channels and the
ultra-wealthy channels. And then, you
know, what's left is what will be left
for retail. But
>> But even even 5% of of they're expected
to now raise close to 75 billion at this
price is is the Journal's latest
reporting as of when we're talking now.
Even 5% of that would be a lot of
>> It would be a lot. It would be a lot.
So, we'll see how it all shakes out. If
you're interested in learning more about
how to buy shares of SpaceX, I actually
wrote a story this past week in The Wall
Street Journal
giving kind of a news you can use on how
to buy into SpaceX's IPO via one of
these retail brokerages. So, check that
out.
>> Well,
this all reminds me of how a few months
ago um at our WSJ Invest Live conference
down in uh Palm Beach, Florida, uh one
of the speakers there, John Gray, the uh
president of Blackstone, said it's going
to be the year of the IPO. Now, he said
this back in is February,
>> February, yep.
>> February. It's looking like a smart
thing to say now.
>> John really is a smart guy.
>> [laughter]
>> Because we've got not just SpaceX, but
Anthropic this past week officially
confidentially filed to go public, which
is a pretty strong indicator that it
will.
>> And OpenAI is expected to file soon,
too.
>> OpenAI is expected to go. There've been
a number of other
kind of smaller but notable deals
happening, so it does seem like we're
heading towards a pretty, pretty
historic IPO year, potentially.
>> And I also want to mention, it's not
just the
new debuts of these companies that are
kind of on fire right now. Google also
sold shares. And um one of the big
buyers of those shares is Berkshire
Hathaway.
>> And that's that's notable because
Berkshire Hathaway,
of course, is is kind of under new
management these days. Warren Buffett
has handed the reins over to Greg Abel.
And that Google deal, buying like a huge
amount of Google stock, really doubling
down on on Alphabet is the parent
company.
>> Oh, sorry.
>> Doubling down on
>> I can never remember.
>> [laughter]
>> Um you know, they've already been
invested in that and and now Berkshire
is going going even bigger into that
stock. And they also did a big deal.
They bought Taylor Morrison the home
builder.
>> Berkshire did, yeah.
>> Berkshire did.
>> Yeah.
>> So, I guess what that leaves us with is
is
where where are we now in the moment of
this big AI trade, which has been
dominating the market for so long. Some
people, I think, would look at an IPO
boom and say, "Well, surely that's the
top, right? The insiders are selling out
to, you know, the less informed
investors, so clearly this is the top."
Other people might look at it and say,
"No, this this is the the the Netscape
moment, you know?" And I'm referring
[laughter] to like an early, you know,
1990s dot com uh IPO. Of course, these
are not young little companies like
companies used to go public as back in
the 1990s, so
who knows how it's going to play out.
>> Yeah, I mean, with the thing that's
really interesting me with these big
IPOs is how the indexes are going to
incorporate
um these companies early on into um the
fold. Usually, indexes take a while to
do that, and that means that these
companies are really going to pretty
quickly immediately affect all passive
investors because they will be in a lot
of indexes. So, we actually have a
question for you audience related to
this. We wanted to know if you have
questions about investing in the IPO
market. Send us an email, a voice memo,
or um any other preferred form of
communication to take on the week at
wsj.com.
And we could read your answer on the
air.
>> And I would make an ask audience of
specifically I'm interested in your
questions about indexing. This this
indexing point you just raised Miriam
because it's it's it's a contentious
point. There are of course some people
who think of course an index should have
these big companies. I am a passive
investor. I want the market if
SpaceX and Anthropic and OpenAI are big
companies in the market, you know, maybe
I love them, maybe I hate them, but I
want the market. Other people would say,
"Wait a second, aren't companies
supposed to sort of season and take some
time and show like a track record of
profitability before they're added to
this to benchmark indexes that mean that
the whole world is going to buy them."
So, I'd be very interested in your
thoughts about that and how you might
change your strategy based on what the
index that you follow
does.
>> I can't wait to hear what people have to
say about that, but coming up next our
guest today, NYU finance professor
Aswath Damodaran, has a lot to say about
indexing actually and so we'll hear more
about that
and his valuation for SpaceX after the
break.
>> All right, welcome back. We are joined
by Aswath Damodaran. He is the corporate
finance and valuation professor at NYU's
Stern School of Business.
Uh professor, welcome.
>> Thank you.
>> People call you the dean of valuation.
Is that a is that a formal title? Is
that a chair at uh at at Stern?
>> There's a story behind it. From a CNBC
anchor could not get my last name and
finally gave up and he said I'll call
you the dean. So
>> [laughter]
>> Nothing more, nothing less.
>> So we very excitedly consumed your
SpaceX
Substack post from I guess a couple of
weeks ago now and it was when the
company was rumored to be heading public
but but before the IPO prospectus. Let's
start at a high level for for people who
are getting curious about SpaceX,
thinking about the IPO, what is it that
this company actually does?
>> SpaceX is a business that's older than
Tesla. It was started a few months ahead
of Tesla. So it's been around 25 plus
years. It's not a young company. And it
It's a company that started with the
space launch business. The original idea
of course was to get people to Mars.
That was the mission but increasingly
its business was launching satellites
and other material into space. That's
That's a first and core business. That
business allowed it to expand into the
internet business because those
satellites could provide internet
service, especially in parts of the
world where traditional fiber optic or
cable or phone phone connections did not
work that well.
And finally this year third business was
added to the mix in the form of XAI
which is the parent company for Grok and
it allowed them to enter the AI
business. So in sum you've got the space
launch business, you've got the
connectivity business and you've got the
AI business. All connected by the thread
of something to do with
outer space somewhere along the way.
>> So in your Substack article you
broke down each of these businesses and
did evaluation. You are the data
evaluation of course. How did you go
about valuing SpaceX without any of the
numbers from the prospectus?
>> When you have a young company, your
value drive is driven primarily by
potential markets, how large the market
is, how much money you can make rather
than what you've already done. So, when
you look at the financial statements for
young companies, there's not much you're
going to learn about it. In fact, when I
originally valued SpaceX without the
prospectuses,
I had numbers that were rumored numbers,
kind of leaked numbers, but there's not
much you're learning from the financial
statements that you wouldn't have known
already
without those statements available to
you. But, I valued them based on
potential, and that potential is there
whether you have the financial
statements or not in each of the three
businesses.
>> All right, so let's break it down.
You've got the prospectuses, and we all
have the prospectuses now in front of
us. You've got all the numbers.
How do you approach valuing SpaceX? Did
you look at each of the three
businesses? Did you look at its
profitability?
Tell us, you know, what what what's your
number is and how you got there.
>> I did break it down by business because
each business is unique in its own way,
and SpaceX brings different strengths to
each business. So, I thought it made
sense to actually value the space launch
business,
the connectivity business, which is the
Starlink business, and the xAI business
separately. Very different business
models, very different ways of making
money.
>> And it seems like Starlink is its most
profitable business right now.
>> It's the least loss-making business, not
the most profitable because they still
lose money in all three businesses,
but that's a little unfair to SpaceX
because the reason they lose money is
they spend hundreds of billions of
dollars on R&D,
which is treated as an accounting
expense, but it's really for future
growth. If you take the R&D out, you're
right. Starlink is not just the most
profitable business, it's also the
business that contributes a bulk of the
revenues. Out of the 18 and 1/2 billion
in revenues, 11 billion come from
Starlink from Starlink. It's a business
that's generating the most revenues,
and it's probably the business that's
most likely to turn profitable in the
near term because it is a subscription
driven business and it's increasingly
going to get enterprise subscriptions.
Airlines for instance, but space
launches
business is also profitable if you
factor out the R&D. Much of that expense
is the R&D expense. It's a business
because they reuse their rockets. They
they are much cheaper than the
alternative and they still manage to
keep a substantial amount of every
dollar they generate as revenues for
meeting all of the other expenses they
might have as a company. The company
that's furthest away from profitability
is XAI because like every other AI
company it's still struggling to find a
way to to get a business model that
actually delivers profits on a sustained
basis.
>> To get to the numbers a little bit. So
SpaceX has been reportedly seeking a
valuation somewhere between and we don't
as we're recording this we don't know
the exact number, but it's somewhere in
the neighborhood of this is a big
neighborhood.
You know, between 1 and 1/2 trillion and
2 trillion. You kind of hear different
sort of thoughts about where they might
fall in that spectrum. I think the way
the journal has said seeking more than
1.5 trillion in its kind of overall
valuation. But Professor, your number
pre-prospectus was you had it closer to
1.2 trillion on the total valuation.
What explains that difference would you
say?
>> I think the first thing to do is step
back. This is a pre-priced company.
Unlike 30 or 40 years ago when a private
company went public we had absolutely no
idea what the pricing would look like.
This is a company if you went 2 months
ago to Yahoo Finance you could look up
the pricing for the private shares
transacted. It's being priced about 1.2
trillion already. So my valuation
actually is pretty close to where the
pricing is pre-IPO.
That said you could argue and then the
this is the banker's argument will be
the liquidity should go up because they
become a public company. And the fact
that, you know, investors can get in in
and out of the company fairly easily,
you could make the argument that it
should be higher than it what it was
before. So, if I took you to the mindset
of a banker, they'd start with the 1.2
trillion that the pre-pricing number
was. They'll add a premium to it. They
will then come up with a way of making
it look like they came up with that
number using a pricing multiple of peer
groups. But the truth is the pricing is
set up and my guess is somewhere around
1.8 trillion, which is, you know, a
little below the top end. And the reason
it'll be a little below the top end is a
purely logistical factor, which is banks
have to guarantee the offering price.
And no bank can afford to overprice this
offering. They don't have the capital to
cover it. So, there'll be an
underpricing.
And it's true for the company will leave
money on the table. When you're issuing
only 8, 9, 10% of your shares,
it's like a lost leader. You're willing
to take that for the new stories that
come out with that might draw other
people into the trading game.
It's also entirely possible that other
people looking at this company have a
very different I'm telling a story about
the company. It's my story. It's not
their story. There are people who argue
that SpaceX is worth nothing. They're
convinced it's a scam and you know,
these many of these people have been
short-selling Tesla as well for the last
decade. So, I'm not sure how much I
believe them.
It might
>> been doing so well with that short.
>> I think part of it is a personal
antipathy that they feel towards Musk
and they're convinced that everything he
does must have nothing at its at its
core.
But I think that there can be bigger or
smaller stories. The valuation story is
three dimensions. How big is the
potential market?
How large a share of that potential
market you're going to get? So, that's
going to give you revenues. How
profitable
is that market going to be? And finally,
how much will they have to invest to get
that growth that they're forecasting?
Those are the three dimensions in every
business story.
And at least in my from my perspective,
I see the you know the market as as
large and at least in the space launch
and the connectivity business, I think
they're going to dominate the business
because they have a cost advantage over
everybody else in the game. On X I all
bets are off. The market is huge, but
they don't have a particular competitive
advantage. So the story is weaker from
that perspective because the market
share is going to have to be fought out
and often on pricing which makes your
profitability lower in that business.
>> Well, I want to focus on that market
size point because one very eye-popping
number in the prospectus is that
uh SpaceX says that its total
addressable market that there is a 28
trillion-dollar market, right? That is
the size of the markets that it is
addressing through its three businesses.
And if you take a you know, whatever
percentage you think of that market
SpaceX will be, you can get to some
pretty big numbers, you know, forget two
trillion, you could probably get to five
trillion if you think about it that way.
What do you think about this approach?
>> As I read through the entire prospectus,
I wasn't sure whether a banker wrote it
or Grok wrote it.
And [laughter] no, because in a sense
it's a lot of it is mechanical, a lot of
pictures, a lot of storylines and Grok
can do that. And we know one of the
problems with AI is hallucinations and
my first instinct was there's some
hallucinations going on here with the
total addressable market.
Cuz that 28 trillion is in my view
reaching the end of what's plausible and
pushing beyond.
>> Mhm.
>> Almost all of the 28 trillion is from
the AI business. It's 26 trillion AI,
two trillion for space launch and
connectivity. So
and on the connectivity in space and
space launch businesses, I'm willing to
live with those markets. The 26 trillion
from AI
I don't see it happening because that
would if it happens, then we're all in
trouble because it require replacing
labor on such a huge scale.
>> Mhm.
>> That, you know, we'd all be unemployed
and AI would be the only employed agent
out there. So, I think the 26 trillion
is more a wish than an expectation, but
I can see the gaming again that's going
on, which is
you know, bankers know that people price
companies, they don't value them. They
price them based on potential market.
So, this game that Silicon Valley has
kind of perfected over the last decade
is to make that total market as big as
you can
so that people will get dazzled by that
number and not ask the follow-up
questions you should be asking, which is
market share, profitability,
reinvestment, which are the ones that
bring you back to reality.
>> So, all right, then,
you're talking about a company that you
think, based on on on reasonable
assumptions about its businesses, and
not even uncharitable ones, right? Like
you're you're giving a lot of credit to
this company for taking advantage of
these market opportunities that that
that that you have identified. So, you
come to a number of 1.2 trillion, which
is a big number. That's a very big
company. And yet, it's not
what, you know, what it could be trading
in the market at maybe 2 trillion. Does
that mean that this company is a
screaming sell the first day it lists?
Is that how investors should think about
it?
>> First, I mean,
when when I say the company is
overvalued, it's worth recognizing that
there's been only one company in history
that's gone public with a market cap
greater than a trillion, which is
Aramco.
>> That's the Saudi Arabia state oil
company, actually.
>> Yeah, very unique company.
>> 1.2 trillion is an extraordinary number
for a company with only 20 billion
dollars roughly in revenues, losing
money last year.
So, in many ways, I'm I'm bending over
>> [clears throat]
>> over backwards trying to give the
company credit for things it can do.
And I think it's an engineering marvel.
I think even more than Tesla, I look at
SpaceX and said, this is an amazing
accomplishment to be able to do
something that every expert prior to you
coming on the place and you could not
do." I think it's a it's a great
company, an engineering marvel, but you
can have a great company as an
engineering marvel that's too rich for
your taste. And that's basically what
I'm saying. Should you sell at the
offering? Well, unless you want to sell
short. And with companies like this,
that's a very, very quick way to go
bankrupt, right? You don't already own
the shares.
Will the existing ownership sell? That's
going to be a They're locked up for a
few months. At the end of the period,
some of them will sell. My guess is a
lot more will play the trading game. In
the trading game, you can buy something
that's overpriced and still make money
because it gets even more overpriced.
It's a very different game than looking
at value.
And 95% of what happens in markets is
built around the trading game. And with
stock like SpaceX, it's going to be one
of the most heavily traded
investments out there. People buying and
selling based on mood and momentum.
So, that basically means you want You
don't want to get in the way of
momentum. It's going to stomp you even
if you're right
on value. So, I would advise you if you
think it's overpriced to stay away. And
I would further advise you not to wag
your finger and talk about the
shallowness of markets and how crazy
people are. It's not your money. Just
let it go.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh, that's such sage advice.
>> And there are
45,000
other publicly traded companies out
there you can invest in. This isn't for
you. That's okay.
>> But even if you're an an investor, a
passive investor in index funds, you're
going to be heavily exposed to this
company because of the way that the
indexes have decided to admit it early.
And so, that means that whether or not
you want to own it, you will own it if
you're if you own broad indexes.
>> Yeah. And you will. And I think that the
essence of an index fund is you want
your investment to behave like the
overall market does. That's the only end
game, right? It's not that you want to
beat the market or do well. You're just
going to match the market. And if that's
your end game, then to match the market,
you got to reflect what's in the market.
What's in the market will be, you know,
SpaceX and OpenAI and Anthropic by the
end of the year. So, I think it makes
sense for them to be in the index fund.
>> All right, we're going to take a quick
break and when we come back, we want to
talk a little bit more about AI as we
teased and also just the Elon Muskiness
of this of this of this deal. What is
what what is the fact that he is going
to control this company? What does that
have to do with valuation? More on that
in a second.
>> Welcome back. We are here with Professor
Aswath Damodaran uh of NYU. Thank you
for being here with us.
Um we
wanted to get into a big question that's
surrounding SpaceX, which is the
governance question, of course. As we've
talked about, this company is controlled
by Elon Musk and it owns another Elon
Musk property that formally was an you
know, part of another company, XAI. Um
so, there's a lot of Elon Musk, you
know, influence here. What do you think
it means, you know, to invest in a
controlled company, especially an Elon
Musk controlled company?
>> You know,
when companies get founded, the founder
is usually part of the story. And in
most companies, as the company gets
larger and more mature, the founder
either leaves or steps into the
background. Think Bill Gates and
Microsoft, Jeff Bezos and Amazon.
That has not been the case with
Musk-driven companies because Musk stays
at the center of the process.
And he brings his pluses and minuses
into the story. His pluses are he thinks
out of the box. He can he comes up with
solutions to questions that other people
are not even asking.
He seems to be very good at working with
engineers. He might not be the greatest
engineer in the world, you know, not
great with managers, but great with
engineers.
And he's built uh two companies that are
engineering marvels, Tesla and and
SpaceX. So, you got to give him the
credit. But, he is human and he brings
all his weaknesses to the game, which is
he tends to get distracted at times and
who can blame him when you're running,
you know, three, four, five different
entities around.
And I think those distractions sometimes
step on his own story. So, you know, I
value Tesla now since 2013 and I've had
to deal with the Musk question, which is
it a net plus or a net minus?
And for much of Tesla's lifetime, it's
been more a net plus than a net minus.
Notwithstanding the question that have
come up in the last few years.
And with SpaceX again, I think that
question will con- will continue to be
asked is
Elon Musk's presence at the company a
net plus or a net minus? And with one
one thing that we have to recognize, if
you believe that Elon Musk is a net
minus, there's not much you're going to
be able to do about it.
From a valuation perspective,
it means that if you get into some kind
of a spiral where management is making
bad decisions, there's no exit where new
management steps in and changes the way
the company is run because of the
governance structure.
>> All right, so I want to continue to wrap
my head around the fact that the
the actual galaxy braining of this
company's valuation is not in the part
that's like about the galaxy. It's not
the space business. It's the it's the
terrestrial sort of AI business. And so,
I want to drill down into something that
that that you've talked about uh
Professor with SpaceX, which is that the
unit economics of its AI business
are
don't look so great to you. And that
that is part of why you maybe are less
enthusiastic than other models or other
approaches might be about that part of
the business. Tell us about what what do
you see in the problem? What what are
the problems you see in the unit
economics of of the AI business?
>> Ultimately, it's not how big a market
is, is how much money you can make in
the market that drives your value. Unit
economics capture your capacity to make
money on a big market. I'll give you an
example of big unit economics, low
profits. Discount retailers have huge
revenues, low profits because the unit
economics are not great, right? You mark
up something by three, four, five
percent and sell it. You're not going to
get 50% margin. You're looking at 5%
margins. So, one of the things I looked
at was the unit economics at least as
they exist. And that's one good thing
you get out of the prospectus, is you
get the unit economics in the three
businesses.
On the space launch and the connectivity
business,
uh you know, SpaceX has not just good
unit economics, but improving unit
economics. They're making more, which is
a good sign.
On the AI business, the unit economics
are not as attractive and they're
getting worse, suggesting it's a very
competitive space. And part of the
reason I think the unit economics on AI
are not great is because it costs to
provide AI services. It's not a freebie.
It's not like an a Netflix signing an
additional subscriber. It's more like
Spotify getting an additional subscriber
and having to pay for content. It's as a
cost that comes with In fact, I don't
think the subscription model
is long for the world, at least in AI.
Because the money that you know, you get
from a subscription can very quickly get
be wiped out by heavy users of the
model. This is not just specific to X
AI. I don't think the unit economics are
great in Anthropic or on chat GP or or
on OpenAI either because the same forces
are playing out there. Now, two things
can happen that change the unit
economics. One is the costs of
delivering AI services start to drop off
dramatically.
Which is at the moment tough to see
because it's so much of it is power and
water and it's not like power is going
to halve in price over the next 5 years.
You know, or that you get to charge
higher prices you know, for your product
which means that you got to bring down
your potential market. So you can't have
your cake and eat it you can't have the
20 billion
total addressable market and tell me
you're not 20 trillion 20 trillion 20
[laughter] trillion I'm sorry.
And [gasps]
and tell me you're going to be able to
raise prices because those two are
incompatible.
>> Yeah.
>> So the kind of business pathways I see
for AI will all you know, they get
they'll all be successful companies. The
question is what will they look like in
steady state?
>> Do you have an alternative total
addressable market that's that's not in
the you know, 20 to 30 trillion dollar
range?
>> It ultimately ties down to your AI
story. If your AI story is that it's a
tools it's going to provide tools to
employees. You're looking at about a
tenth
of that 26 trillion.
>> Okay.
>> Cuz you can't spend 26 trillion and pay
your employees what you used to and
expect to survive as a business, right?
So it's going to be a much smaller
business. For the market to get bigger
you got to replace people. That's your
it's a it's a harsh reality that the
most successful AI stories come with
costs for the rest of us. It's got to
come. So it really goes back to read
re-reading those arguments about what
percentage of employees will get
displaced. If you think it's going to be
only a small percentage your market size
will get closer to four or five
trillion. If you think it's going to be
50% of employees then your market size
can expand out to 12 15 trillion. So one
way to think about how big the market is
is to work through your bigger story of
what's AI going to do. Is it going to be
a tool or is it going to be
an employee replacement because that's
very closely tied to how big the market
is going to get.
>> like people are starting to come down on
one side or the other of that argument.
But, what I'm hearing more from CEOs is
that it's going to be a tool. And maybe
that's because they don't want to be
coming out there and saying, "I'm going
to be firing all my employees."
>> Well, and also, if you fire all your
employees, you know, as an investor, you
know, okay, may- maybe that's great for
SpaceX and Anthropic, but, you know, a
lot of the other companies I own shares
in, you know, sell things to people.
>> Right. As we've talked about a lot on
this show, yeah.
>> I mean, maybe your portfolio can just be
three AI companies, but but I I'm not
sure that's something that would be
market positive uh to to see that.
>> There's a micro and a macro question,
right? On a on a from a micro
perspective, we could tell great stories
about individual companies. But, if you
add them all up and think about the
economy and what's happening,
the AI story might be a net negative for
the economy because, you know, what if
half of employees get replaced by AI
agents? You know, who's buying, as you
said, who's, you know, people need
income to buy stuff.
>> I have another question about the space
part of SpaceX cuz we haven't talked as
much about that. And I know it's less
crucial to the valuation, but I mean,
how much does getting to Mars actually
matter in terms of the valuation for
SpaceX? Like, what are the other goals
that we could be accomplishing in space
that don't include getting to Mars? Or
do we need to get to Mars for this to
really play out?
>> In fact, I'll be quite honest. In my
story, going to Mars is a very small
tangent.
>> Yeah.
>> To me, it's a luxury travel business.
It's like those uh safari trips uh
National Geographic has to Africa that
cost 15,000. I look at that, I'm not
paying that. There'll be people who'll
pay it. It's a niche business. It's not
going to drive the entire business.
>> One way travel.
>> Yeah. [laughter]
>> I might might add, by the way.
>> But, here's the reality, though. The
space launch business is a growth
business because so much of what we do
is dependent on those things being out
in space, including whether your cell
service works or whether you get the
whether you get or your GPS, I mean, we
are increasingly dependent on having
things up in up in space to manage our
day-to-day. In fact, one of the few ways
in which
the space launch and the XAI business
connect is there's now talk of data
centers being in space. You solve a few
problems with this, right? You don't
have the political pushback you get when
you try to build a data center in the
middle of Georgia or Alabama or
Louisiana, you do now.
And um well, still technologically,
we're not there yet, but if you ever
figure out a way to get data centers
into space, and SpaceX already has the
advantage of being able to get things
into space,
it'll give them an advantage over
Anthropic and XAI, which might be a
tiebreaker way down the path.
But, I think SpaceX can use its its cost
advantages in launching things. It's
part of the reason they dominate the
connectivity businesses. Amazon, as you
know, has tried to is trying to enter
the business, but Amazon has only a few
hundred satellites out there. SpaceX has
10,000, and it can launch even more.
So, that that original business has
turned out to be synergistic in ways to
the other two businesses, either right
now or in the future that could be
adding to the value of the company.
>> Professor Damodaran, we we could talk to
you all day. It's been a treat to to to
talk about this. But, but maybe just to
close out,
given that we're going to see the IPO of
SpaceX
and possibly the IPOs of Anthropic and
maybe even AI at Open AI Open Open AI,
what are probably valuations beyond what
a fundamental kind of bottom-up approach
would suggest?
Do you think that that raises the the
risk that we are in a bubble situation,
and that the market could correct or
even crash, even if in the long run
these companies do live up to some of
their potential. Do you just worry that
we are in a bubbly market? I think
people That's been the talking point
around these IPOs lately.
>> You know, I I wrote a piece a few years
ago. I said, "What's wrong with being in
a bubble?" And my argument was every
human advancement that's come from
people overreaching and corrections. We
talk about the dot-com bubble and bust,
right? But it changed the way we lived.
We talk about PCs, the bubble and bust,
changed the way we work.
Every bubble creates change. And the
question asked rhetorically in my
classes would you want to live in a
world run by actuaries?
We'd still be in caves because they'd
say, "Well, this experimentation and
fire is not quite complete." So, to me
bubbles are a feature of markets, not a
bug. And collectively, I do think the
companies are overvalued. It doesn't
mean every one of them is. As I said,
the winner might end up being worth $7
trillion. Just like the dot-com bubble
and bust gave us Amazon, there will be a
company that emerges, maybe not one of
the existing companies, out of this huge
market with a huge value.
So, collectively, they're probably
overvalued, but that's neither here nor
there. It's something you'd expect when
you have a change this large hitting the
economy and markets.
And there will be a correction. And
there'll be a cleaning up. And our lives
will be different because of it in lots
of different ways.
>> This is a really interesting
conversation. In fact, so interesting
that that viewers might want to tune in
to the next episode of
>> [laughter]
>> Aswath Damodaran's Take on the Week.
>> Hint, hint.
Uh Professor Aswath Damodaran, thanks so
much for joining us.
>> Thank you for having me.
>> So, quick update. We recorded this
conversation early this past week. And
since then, Professor Damodaran has used
all of the latest information in
SpaceX's prospectus to come to a
valuation that is now around 1.3
trillion dollars.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I'm Telis Demos.
>> And I'm Miriam Gottfried.
>> Wait, that's not how we do it, is it?
No, we say
>> Is this on? Okay.
>> [music]